---
layout: post
title: Step by Step Guide to Structuring Workouts
date: 2015-07-15 15:09:00
description: Stop wasting time when you work out. Read this guide.
tags: formatting code
categories: sample-posts
featured: true
---
Looking for specific drills to add into your workouts? Check out the other posts.
Step 1: Stretch - This is often the most overlooked part of working out. You can't be explosive or fast if you aren't flexible. Find a good stretching/mobility routine. 

Step 2: Ball Handling - This is a MUST HAVE for every workout. Doesn't have to be too long, but it is important to ensure that you keep your handles sharp. If you are a beginner, I recommend spending at least 15 minutes on ball handling during each workout.

Step 3: Form shots - Don't start shooting by chucking up threes. Start at the basket and work your way out.

Step 4: Identify what your role is on the team you play on, or certain situations that occur repeatedly during games. For instance, if you are normally a shooter on your team, work on pump fakes and driving out of the corner if you are forced off the three point line. If you are a center, work on moves in the specific places on the court where you find yourself catching the ball the most. After determining what you want to work on, stick with that same drill over and over until you feel comfortable. Depending on time, and the amount of moves you want to work on, I would recommend getting at least 10 makes for each drill you do. If you find yourself struggling or uncomfortable with the drill you are doing, keep doing it.

Step 5: Shooting - This is for everyone, whether you are a center, or a guard. If you can consistently hit three pointers, you will give the coach a reason to play you. I recommend making AT LEAST 300-500 3s a week. Place a bigger focus on the looks you see in game. If you are seeing certain looks in game, such as catch and shoot wing 3s, focus more on that. Also, if you are a guard, work on the midrange as well. If you can consistently hit midranges on top of threes, you will scary to guard. 

OPTIONAl: Looking to improve your conditioning? If you want to play in varsity and beyond, you NEED to be conditioned. I personally run a full court suicide right after stretching, another after ball handling, one suicide after each drill, and one suicide every 20 makes in the shooting portion of my workout. Set a goal timing wise, so you can push yourself to become faster. I personally set a goal to do each suicide in under 26 seconds. 


{% endhighlight %}
