---
layout: post
title: Three lower body exercises to do.
date: 2025-01-22 5:32:00
description: Looking to become more explosive and jump higher? Do these exercises.
tags: Strength/Conditioning
---
A quick Google/Youtube search will show you how to perform these exercises.

1. Bulgarian Split Squat Holds: This exercise targets your quads and glutes. It has helped me tremendously, and after consistently doing this exercise, I saw a huge jump in my explosiveness off my first step, as well as my overall speed. If you are a beginner hold this for 30 seconds, and do three sets of these. Do these every other day. If you are advanced/stronger, hold these for 45 seconds each set, and do three sets. Do these EVERY single day, and they are great before starting your basketball workouts. If these are still too easy, I recommend doing these with your heel up as well.

2. Banded Knee Drives: This exercise targets your hips, glutes and hamstrings. This waws another exercise that helped me tremendously. I recommend doing three sets of 12 reps. If you are stronger, do these everyday and preferably right before your basketball workouts, just like the bulgarian split squat hold.

3. Jump Rope: Jumping rope may sound simple, but it is great for improving quickness and your vertical. I strongly recommend doing these everyday, especially right before your basketball workouts. It will get you warm and bouncy. Beginners can jump rope for 1-2 mins, while if you are stronger you can even up it to 5 mins. You can also jump rope off of one leg if you are looking to challenge yourself further.
